WebXR Depth Sensing - User Manual (#582)
playcanvas/developer.playcanvas.com: docs/user-manual/xr/ar/depth-sensing.md

---
title: Depth Sensing
sidebar_position: 1
---

> In the MR context, immersion is achieved by visual and logical interaction of virtual objects with the real world. This is achieved by many techniques including Depth Occlusion, particles interacting with the world, 3D scanning, and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the MR context, immersion is achieved by visual and logical interaction of virtual objects with the real world. This is achieved by many techniques including Depth Occlusion, particles interacting with the world, 3D scanning and more.
```

> Depth sensing - provides access to depth estimation of real-world objects in real-time. Underlying systems might have different methods of estimations such as Lidar hardware or Computer Vision, which provide various levels of quality and reliability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depth sensing provides access to depth estimation of real-world objects in real-time. Underlying systems might have different methods of estimation such as Lidar hardware or Computer Vision, which provide various levels of quality and reliability.
```

> WebXR Depth Sensing provides access to depth information for each view and matches the color information. Various browsers might implement two paths: CPU and GPU, with various performance impacts depending on the path. PlayCanvas integrates an API abstracting away as much as possible the difference, e.g. texture is available for CPU and GPU paths.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebXR Depth Sensing provides access to depth information for each view and matches the color information. Various browsers might implement two paths: CPU and GPU, with various performance impacts depending on the path. PlayCanvas integrates an API abstracting away the differences as much as possible, e.g. texture is available for both CPU and GPU paths.
```

> Platforms might implement either path CPU or GPU, or even both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Platforms might implement either path: CPU or GPU, or even both.
```

> To request access to camera depth, the session should be started with an extra flag:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To request access to camera depth, the session should be started as follows:
```

```javascript
app.xr.start(camera, pc.XRTYPE_AR, pc.XRSPACE_LOCALFLOOR, {
    depthSensing: { // request access to camera depth
        usagePreference: pc.XRDEPTHSENSINGUSAGE_GPU, // prefer GPU implementation
        dataFormatPreference: pc.XRDEPTHSENSINGFORMAT_F32 // prefer data as Float 32 array/texture
    }
});
```

## Support

> You can check if the camera depth is supported by the system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check if camera depth is supported by the system:
```

```javascript
if (app.xr.views.supportedDepth) {
    // camera depth access is supported
}

app.xr.on('start', () => {

>     if (app.xr.views.availableDetpth) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    if (app.xr.views.availableDepth) {
```

        // camera depth information is available

        if (app.xr.views.depthGpuOptimized) {
            // GPU path
        } else {
            // CPU path
        }
    }
});
```

## Distance Measurements

> Depth estimation and availability of the data a subject to underlying AR system reliability, so depth information might not be always available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depth estimation and availability of the data is subject to the reliability of the underlying AR system, so depth information might not be always available.
```

> WebXR supports it only for CPU-path. Using Depth Sensing, you can measure the distance by providing U and V, which are 0 to 1 coordinates of a screen (left-right top-bottom).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebXR supports it only for the CPU-path. Using Depth Sensing, you can measure the distance by providing U and V, which are 0 to 1 coordinates of a screen (left-right and top-bottom).
```

```javascript
// get monoscope view (mobile screens)
const view = app.xr.views.get(pc.XREYE_NONE);
if (view) {
    // get distance from the middle of a screen
    const distance = view.getDepth(0.5, 0.5);

    if (distance !== null) {

>         // distance is in meeters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // distance is in meters
```

    }
}
```

## Texture

You can access a texture of the depth. PlayCanvas augments the different CPU/GPU paths and provides one texture that can be an array texture in the case of stereoscopic screens (e.g. HMDs).

Accessing the texture:

```javascript
const view = app.xr.views.list[0];
if (view) {
    const texture = view.textureDepth;

    if (texture) {
        // get global uniform
        const scopeDepthMap = app.graphicsDevice.scope.resolve('depthMap');
        // set uniform
        scopeDepthMap.setValue(texture);
    }
}
```

### Stereo Views

> When using texture in the shader, depending on monoscope or stereoscope scenario, a different approach should be used. And can be implemented by `#define` in the shader:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the depth texture in the shader, depending on a monoscope or stereoscope scenario, a different approach should be used. This can be implemented by a `#define` in the shader:
```

```javascript
const view = app.xr.views.list[0];
if (view && view.eye !== pc.XREYE_NONE) {
    // add define for stereo views
    fragShader = '#define XRDEPTH_ARRAY\n' + fragShader;
}
```

### Data Format

> WebXR can provide depth sensing data in two formats: F32 (array of 32-bit floats) and packed as LA8 (flat array of pairs of 8-bit values). They do provide slightly different precision 32 vs 16 bits for depth, but even 16 bits is plenty for close-proximity use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebXR can provide depth sensing data in two formats: F32 (array of 32-bit floats) and packed as LA8 (flat array of pairs of 8-bit values). They do provide slightly different precision: 32 vs 16 bits for depth, but even 16 bits is plenty for close-proximity use.
```

> We can use shader branching to unpack depth value from a texture depending on the format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use shader branching to unpack depth values from a texture depending on the format:
```

```javascript
if (app.xr.views.depthPixelFormat === pc.PIXELFORMAT_R32F) {
    fragShader = '#define XRDEPTH_FLOAT\n' + fragShader;
}
```

### UV Normalization

> WebXR might provide the texture rotated and flip in any combinations, so normalization should be implemented using the provided matrix. We can set this matrix like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WebXR might provide the texture rotated and flipped in any combination, so normalization should be implemented using the provided matrix. We can set this matrix like so:
```
